mmap-queue-plugin (#10)
apache/skywalking-satellite: docs/plugins/queue/mmap/README.md

# Design

> The mmap-queue is a big, fast and persistent queue based on the memory mapped files. One mmap-queue has a directory to store the whole data. The Queue directory is made up with many segments and 1 meta file, which references the design of the [bigqueue](https://github.com/grandecola/bigqueue). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mmap-queue is a big, fast, and persistent queue based on the memory-mapped files. One mmap-queue has a directory to store the whole data. The queue directory is made up of many segments and 1 metafile. This is originally implemented by [bigqueue](https://github.com/grandecola/bigqueue) project, we changed it a little for fitting the Satellite project requirements.
```

Reviewer: Please note, `reference` usually means taking the design idea, but here, we copied some of it.

- Segment: Segment is the real data store center, that provides large-space storage and does not reduce read and write performance as much as possible by using mmap. And we will avoid deleting files by reusing them.
- Meta: The purpose of meta is to find the data that the consumer needs.

## Meta

> Metadata only needs 80B to store the Metadata for the pipe. But for memory alignment, it takes at least one memory page size, which is generally 4K.

Reviewer: Please highlight, this is not our design, declare the original place very clearly.

[metaVersion][writing   offset][watermark offset][committed offset][reading   offset][capacity]

```
### Transforming

![](https://skywalking.apache.org/blog/2020-11-25-skywalking-satellite-0.1.0-design/offset-convert.jpg)

## Configuration
[Configuration Params](../../../configuration/queue.md)

## Segment
Segments are a series of files of the same size. Each input data would cost `8Bit+Len(data)Bit` to store the raw bytes. The first 8Bit is equal to `Len(data)` for finding the ending position. 
### Swapper
For the performance and resources thinking, we define a page replacement policy.

- Keep the reading and writing segments on the memory.
- When the mmapcount is greater or equals to the max_in_mem_segments, we first scan the read scope and then scan the written scope to swap the segments to promise the reading or writing segments are always in memory.
    - Read scope: [reading_offset - max_in_mem_segments,reading_offset - 1]
    - Written scope: [writing_offset - max_in_mem_segments,writing_offset - 1]
    - Each displacement operation guarantees at least `max_in_mem_segments/2-1` capacity available. Subtract operation to subtract the amount of memory that must always exist.

> ## BenchmarkTest

Author: Yes, you can see in the benchmark test runs over 30000 times, so must trigger the memory swap.
